README.rst, before:

Reason for Fork
-----

Needed a way to add specific exclusions to the write prevention by checking for a wrapper.

How to use:

```
from django.db import connection
from readonly.wrappers import override_readonly
with connection.execute_wrapper(override_readonly):
    do_queries()
```

About
-----

A way to globally disable writes to your database. This works by
inserting a cursor wrapper between Django's ``CursorWrapper`` and the
database connection's cursor wrapper.

Installation
------------

The library is hosted on
`PyPi <http://pypi.python.org/pypi/django-db-readonly/>`_, so you can
grab it there with::

    pip install django-db-readonly

Then add ``readonly`` to your ``INSTALLED_APPS``.::

    INSTALLED_APPS = (
        # ...
        'readonly',
        # ...
    )

Usage
-----

You need to add this line to your ``settings.py`` to make the database read-only:

::

    # Set to False to allow writes
    SITE_READ_ONLY = True

When you do this, any write action to your databases will generate an
exception. You should catch this exception and deal with it somehow. Or
let Django display an `error 500
page <http://docs.djangoproject.com/en/1.3/topics/http/urls/#handler500>`_.
The exception you will want to catch is
``readonly.exceptions.DatabaseWriteDenied`` which inherits from
``django.db.utils.DatabaseError``.

There is also a middleware class that will handle the exceptions and
attempt to handle them as explained below. To enable the middleware, add the following line to your
``settings.py``:

::

    MIDDLEWARE_CLASSES = (
        # ...
        'readonly.middleware.DatabaseReadOnlyMiddleware',
        # ...
    )

This will then catch ``DatabaseWriteDenied`` exceptions. If the request is a POST request, we
will redirect the user to the same URL, but as a GET request. If the
request is not a POST (ie. a GET), we will just display a
``HttpResponse`` with text telling the user the site is in read-only
mode.

In addition, the middleware class can add an error-type message using
the ``django.contrib.messages`` module. Add:

::

    # Enable
    DB_READ_ONLY_MIDDLEWARE_MESSAGE = True

to your ``settings.py`` and then on POST requests that generate a
``DatabaseWriteDenied`` exception, we will add an error message
informing the user that the site is in read-only mode.

For additional messaging, there is a context processor that adds
``SITE_READ_ONLY`` into the context. Add the following line in your
``settings.py``:

::

    TEMPLATE_CONTEXT_PROCESSORS = (
        # ...
        'readonly.context_processors.readonly',
        # ...
    )

And use it as you would any boolean in the template, e.g.
``{% if SITE_READ_ONLY %} We're down for maintenance. {% endif %}``

Testing
-------

There aren't any tests included, yet. Run it at your own risk.

Caveats
-------

This will work with `Django Debug
Toolbar <https://github.com/robhudson/django-debug-toolbar>`_. In fact,
I was inspired by `DDT's sql
panel <https://github.com/robhudson/django-debug-toolbar/blob/master/debug_toolbar/panels/sql.py>`_
when writing this app.

However, in order for both DDT *and* django-db-readonly to work, you
need to make sure that you have ``readonly`` before ``debug_toolbar`` in
your ``INSTALLED_APPS``. Otherwise, you are responsible for debugging
what is going on. Of course, I'm not sure why you'd be running DDT in
production and running django-db-readonly in development, but whatever,
I'm not you.

More generally, if you have any other apps that modifies either
``django.db.backends.util.CursorWrapper`` or
``django.db.backends.util.CursorDebugWrapper``, you need to make sure
that ``readonly`` is placed *before* of those apps in
``INSTALLED_APPS``.

The Nitty Gritty
----------------

How does this do what it does? Well, django-db-readonly sits between
Django's own cursor wrapper at ``django.db.backends.util.CursorWrapper``
and the database specific cursor at
``django.db.backends.*.base.*CursorWrapper``. It overrides two specific
methods: ``execute`` and ``executemany``. If the site is in read-only
mode, then the SQL is examined to see if it contains any write actions
(defined in ``readonly.ReadOnlyCursorWrapper.SQL_WRITE_BLACKLIST``). If
a write is detected, an exception is raised.

License
-------

Uses the `MIT <http://opensource.org/licenses/MIT>`_ license.

Commit message:

ADD: Override for DB Cache

README.rst, after:

Reason for Fork
---------------

Needed a way to add specific exclusions to the write prevention by checking for a wrapper.

How to use::

    from django.db import connection
    from readonly.wrappers import override_readonly
    with connection.execute_wrapper(override_readonly):
        do_queries()

If using a Database Cache for local development you should also set your Cache backend to:
``readonly.cache.ReadOnlyOverrideDatabaseCache``

About
-----

A way to globally disable writes to your database. This works by
inserting a cursor wrapper between Django's ``CursorWrapper`` and the
database connection's cursor wrapper.

Installation
------------

The library is hosted on
`PyPi <http://pypi.python.org/pypi/django-db-readonly/>`_, so you can
grab it there with::

    pip install django-db-readonly

Then add ``readonly`` to your ``INSTALLED_APPS``.::

    INSTALLED_APPS = (
        # ...
        'readonly',
        # ...
    )

Usage
-----

You need to add this line to your ``settings.py`` to make the database read-only:

::

    # Set to False to allow writes
    SITE_READ_ONLY = True

When you do this, any write action to your databases will generate an
exception. You should catch this exception and deal with it somehow. Or
let Django display an `error 500
page <http://docs.djangoproject.com/en/1.3/topics/http/urls/#handler500>`_.
The exception you will want to catch is
``readonly.exceptions.DatabaseWriteDenied`` which inherits from
``django.db.utils.DatabaseError``.

There is also a middleware class that will handle the exceptions and
attempt to handle them as explained below. To enable the middleware, add the following line to your
``settings.py``:

::

    MIDDLEWARE_CLASSES = (
        # ...
        'readonly.middleware.DatabaseReadOnlyMiddleware',
        # ...
    )

This will then catch ``DatabaseWriteDenied`` exceptions. If the request is a POST request, we
will redirect the user to the same URL, but as a GET request. If the
request is not a POST (ie. a GET), we will just display a
``HttpResponse`` with text telling the user the site is in read-only
mode.

In addition, the middleware class can add an error-type message using
the ``django.contrib.messages`` module. Add:

::

    # Enable
    DB_READ_ONLY_MIDDLEWARE_MESSAGE = True

to your ``settings.py`` and then on POST requests that generate a
``DatabaseWriteDenied`` exception, we will add an error message
informing the user that the site is in read-only mode.

For additional messaging, there is a context processor that adds
``SITE_READ_ONLY`` into the context. Add the following line in your
``settings.py``:

::

    TEMPLATE_CONTEXT_PROCESSORS = (
        # ...
        'readonly.context_processors.readonly',
        # ...
    )

And use it as you would any boolean in the template, e.g.
``{% if SITE_READ_ONLY %} We're down for maintenance. {% endif %}``

Testing
-------

There aren't any tests included, yet. Run it at your own risk.

Caveats
-------

This will work with `Django Debug
Toolbar <https://github.com/robhudson/django-debug-toolbar>`_. In fact,
I was inspired by `DDT's sql
panel <https://github.com/robhudson/django-debug-toolbar/blob/master/debug_toolbar/panels/sql.py>`_
when writing this app.

However, in order for both DDT *and* django-db-readonly to work, you
need to make sure that you have ``readonly`` before ``debug_toolbar`` in
your ``INSTALLED_APPS``. Otherwise, you are responsible for debugging
what is going on. Of course, I'm not sure why you'd be running DDT in
production and running django-db-readonly in development, but whatever,
I'm not you.

More generally, if you have any other apps that modifies either
``django.db.backends.util.CursorWrapper`` or
``django.db.backends.util.CursorDebugWrapper``, you need to make sure
that ``readonly`` is placed *before* of those apps in
``INSTALLED_APPS``.

The Nitty Gritty
----------------

How does this do what it does? Well, django-db-readonly sits between
Django's own cursor wrapper at ``django.db.backends.util.CursorWrapper``
and the database specific cursor at
``django.db.backends.*.base.*CursorWrapper``. It overrides two specific
methods: ``execute`` and ``executemany``. If the site is in read-only
mode, then the SQL is examined to see if it contains any write actions
(defined in ``readonly.ReadOnlyCursorWrapper.SQL_WRITE_BLACKLIST``). If
a write is detected, an exception is raised.

License
-------

Uses the `MIT <http://opensource.org/licenses/MIT>`_ license.
